# Day 0 - Ups, Downs, Tribbles and Shit - Irun to Pasai Donibane - ~20km
<br>
<br>
Up at like 5.30 am - this is no bueno! Weirdos getting up, being noisy,  even before the mandatory 6.30 am lights on - they actually start walking at 6am in the pitch black - sun doesn’t rise until 8am - so they intend to walk for 2 hours without being able to see anything what is the point!
<br>
<br>
I lie in bed for an hour - 6.30 arrives and I can get some nice coffee (and some stale bread with jam…) - I try to do some meditation but can’t quite accomplish the state of zen outside the albergue (hostel) sat on concrete…need to touch grass haha - I leave the hostel at around 7 its still dark but I only go as far as the town limits and sit on a bench until there is some light - the whole rest of the hostel march past me looking puzzled that I have already stopped after less than a km…
<br>
<br>
The first 30 mins or so of walking is along a river with some small up hill sections nothing particularly steep yet - pass some interesting cows! Eventually the steepness starts to increase - my bag is too heavy for this…I am too unfit…the worst has yet to come. 
<br>
<br>
The first landmark on todays walk is the “Hermitage of Guadalupe” - some amazing views of Hondarribia…
<br>
<br>
Side Note: What I thought was a napoleonic fort with modern flats built inside it yesterday - is in fact the 16th century	walled old town of Hondarribia (also known as Fuenterrabia in Spanish) - there are no modern flats…its a very pretty little place!
<br>
<br>
After the Hermitage I have a choice of the low road or the high road - the low road consists of walking through forested paths for the majority of the day with occasional views inland - the high road requires a ridiculous steep climb followed by exquisite views of the coast and the bay of biscay - I choose the high road - the initial climb to reach the ridge is 100m of ascent over 300m - this is fucking steep - not really a hill more like a ladder…I nearly die - it takes me 30 mins with multiple stops…eventually you come out of the trees onto the open ground - perfect Wimbledon grass everywhere provided by the sheep - they also provides tonnes and tonnes of shit…the views are stunning - still another 300m of ascent to reach the top at ~500m - this is over a good few km though so not so tough but it will still be difficult…
<br>
<br>
For the next 10km or so there are continuous unobstructed views of both the ocean and the Pyrenees mountains - it was defo worth the “climb”!
<br>
<br>
The ridge is called Jaizkibel - it has a series of towers built along it a reminder that this part of the world has been fought over many times!
<br>
<br>
Now it’s time for the decent - I thought this would be the easy part right? Up is difficult, down is fun? How wrong was I - nearly the majority of the decent is across uneven rocks - I come soo close to snapping my ankle multiple times - eyes down nearly the entire way making sure my feet are going in the right place…I am in awe of the few “trail runners” I see coming along the path - such skill and coordination to be able to run down this - it must go soo wrong for them sometimes though…
<br>
<br>
The last part of the decent is through the forest - nearly the entire way is covered in the spiky shells of chestnuts - it looks like a tribble invasion! 
<br>
<br>
I eventually come out into the town of Lezo - just as the one local store is closing (1.30 pm siesta…) - I get a giant bottle of water and chug it - I forgot to fill up at the hermitage and have been rationing my water - note to self for rest of the walk always always fill up when you can! I sit on my bum outside the shop for about 40 mins and continue to listen to my audio book - really enjoying the culture series - player of games particularly!
<br>
<br>
At this point I decide getting to Donostia-San Sebastian on my first day isn’t happening I will stay in Pasai Donibane tonight - just another few kms away.
<br>
<br>
The main square in Pasai Donibane sits on the side of the estuary leading into the port - I sit down to eat - patatas bravas and garlic prawns with a glass of local white wine - this is the life! 
<br>
<br>
I will tell you about tonights hostel in the Hermitage of Santa Ana tomorrow - similar penitential vibes…
